# Student-Marks-Management-System
This project on “Student Marks Management System” is useful for an easy user interface. The system utilizes powerful database management, data retrieval, and data manipulation. This project provides more ease for managing the data than manually maintaining the documents. The project is useful for saving valuable time and reducing the huge paperwork.
 It will help educational Institutions like schools and colleges will keep track of their student records like personal details, contact details, marks details, etc. The Internet is rapidly becoming a part of the everyday lives of a majority of people in the world. People perform various activities on the Internet and one of them is storing their data in databases where they are interested. In these databases, they can post the queries and they can retrieve the required data. 
There is a need for Student Information System software for the management of students’ data. There are many departments of administration for the maintenance of college information and student databases in any institution. 
All these departments provide various records regarding students. Most of these track records need to maintain information about the students. This information could be the general details like student name, batch, performance, roll no., etc, or specific information related to departments like a collection of data. All the modules in college administration are interdependent. They are maintained manually. 

So, they need to be automated and centralized as Information from one module will be needed by other modules. For example, when a student needs his course completion certificate it needs to check many details about the student like his name, ID, batch, marks, and many other details. So, it needs to contact all the modules that our office, department, and examination and the result of students.
# Objective of Project
 The objective of the project is to maintain the details of marks  details of different students. The main purpose of this project is to maintain an easy circulation system between the database and the admin, all these departments provide various records regarding students. Most of these track records need to maintain information about the students. This information could be the general details like student name, batch, performance, roll no., etc, or specific information related to departments like a collection of data.
 
# Technology Used
 # JSP
 JSP stands for Java Server Pages. The JSP technology can be used to create applications that generate dynamic web pages. This technology has become popular since it incorporates an important characteristic of the Java family - "Write Once, Run Anywhere".
 Some of the key selling points of the JSP technology are as follows: the compilation process used produces fast results and output, and allows for more efficient websites, as the embedded code only gets compiled once and then needs mere execution before including the results in the outbound HTML file. JSP puts the static (HTML) and dynamic (mix of HTML, Java, and JSP) content into separate files. Furthermore, JSP applications feature cross-platform compatibility and can run on major web servers and operating systems. 
JASPER is to be designed to show students how a real, usable program is constructed. As the intended audience for JASPER will consist of second-year computer science students, special emphasis will be placed on a modular structure, straightforward implementation, and thorough documentation. The intended audience for JASPER is students with one year of university-level programming experience. Concerning programming, it is expected that the average user has a solid understanding of object-oriented programming. The users should also be able to program in an object-oriented language, preferably Java



